[do not merge] Versions, Deployments, Gradual Deployments (#13429)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/gradual-deployments.md

---
pcx_content_type: configuration

> title: Gradual Deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Gradual deployments
```
If the feature is not capitalized throughout (does not seem it is), then sticking to title conventions of everything after first word is lowercare.

meta:
  description: Safely deploy code changes to your Workers with gradual deployments. 
---

> {{<heading-pill style="beta">}}Gradual Deployments{{</heading-pill>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<heading-pill style="beta">}}Gradual deployments{{</heading-pill>}}
```
Same comment about title standards as above.

- Gradually shift traffic to a newer version of your Worker
- Monitor error rates and exceptions across versions using [analytics and logging](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/gradual-deployments/#observability--logs-analytics-metrics) tooling
- Perform a [rollback](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/rollbacks/) to a previously stable version if you notice issues when deploying a new version

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Gradual deployments are in **beta and under active development**. Please read [limitations](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments//gradual-deployments/#limitations) before using this feature.

Provide your feeback through this [feedback form](https://www.cloudflare.com/lp/developer-week-deployments).

{{</Aside>}}

## Using Gradual Deployments

The following is a simple example that takes you through how to publish a new version of a Worker without deploying it, how to create a gradual deployment between two versions and how to progress the deployment of the new version to 100% of traffic. 

### Via Wrangler

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> Minimum required wrangler version: 3.34.2. 

Reviewer: Running `npm create cloudflare@latest` will always install the latest version of Wrangler. Elaborating on this a bit more for people who are trying to version with old Workers.
```suggestion
Running C3 will always install the latest version of Wrangler. Gradual deployments require Wrangler version 3.34.2. To check your Wrangler version, refer to [Install/Update Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/#check-your-wrangler-version). 
```

{{</Aside>}}

> **1. Create a new Worker and deploy it using wrangler.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**1. Create a new "Hello World" Worker using the `create-cloudflare` CLI (C3) and deploy it.**
```

Reviewer: Added instructions on what C3 template to pick.

Are we making them create a Worker because older Workers cannot at all use gradual deployments? Or is it a matter of updating Wrangler version? This seems like kind of a strange step to start all the way in the beginning but I understand this might be more of a 'try it out' section @tanushreesharma-cf

Author: Having users create a new worker to serve as a clear example. This is more of 'heres how to think about versions, and gradual deployments together'. 

Gradual rollouts will work with existing Workers.

> ```sh
> $ npm create cloudflare@latest
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<render file="/_c3-run-command.md" productFolder="/workers/" >}}
```
We have a partial for this.

**2. Create a new version of the Worker.**

> Edit the Worker code (recommend simply changing the response content) and upload it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit the Worker code (change the `Response` content) and upload it by using the [`wrangler versions upload`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#upload) command.
```

```sh
$ npx wrangler versions upload --experimental-gradual-rollouts
```
This will create a new version of the Worker that is not automatically deployed. 

**3. Create a new deployment that splits traffic between two versions of the Worker.** 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Use the [`wrangler versions deploy`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#deploy-2) command and follow the interactive prompts to create a deployment with the versions uploaded in step #1 and #2. Select your desired percentages for each version. 

```

```sh
$ npx wrangler versions deploy --experimental-gradual-rollouts
```

> Follow the interactive prompts to create a deployment with the versions uploaded in step #1 and #2. Select your desired percentages for each version. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> **4. curl your Worker to test the split deployment.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**4. cURL your Worker to test the split deployment.**
```

```sh
for j in {0..10}
do
    curl -s https://$SCRIPT_NAME.$SUBDOMAIN.workers.dev
done
```
You should see 10 responses. Responses will reflect the content returned by the versions in your deployment. Responses will vary depending on the percentages configured in step #3. 

**5. Set the new version uploaded in step 2 to a 100% deployment.**

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Run `wrangler versions deploy` again and follow the interactive prompts, selecting the version uploaded in step 2. 

```

```sh
$ npx wrangler versions deploy --experimental-gradual-rollouts
```

> 
> Follow the interactive prompts, selecting version uploaded in step 2. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Via the Dashboard

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers) and select your account.

> 3. Create a new Worker through the **Create application** button, select the **Hello World** template and deploy it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Go to **Workers & Pages** > **Create application** > **Hello World** template > deploy your Worker. 
```

Author: Direct link already takes users to Workers and Pages. 

Note to self: fix numbering here

Reviewer: No need, fixed.

> 4. Once the Worker is deployed, navigate to the online code editor through **Edit code**. Edit the Worker code (recommend simply changing the response content) and upload it. 
> 5. To save changes, click the down arrow beside "Deploy", click Save and click the **Save** button. 
> 6. Create a new deployment that splits traffic between the two versions created in step 3 and 5. Head to the **Deployments** tab and select **Deploy Version**. 
> 7. curl your Worker to test the split deployment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Once the Worker is deployed, go to the online code editor through **Edit code**. Edit the Worker code (change the `Response` content) and upload the Worker. 
5. To save changes, select the **down arrow** next to **Deploy** > **Save**. This will create a new version of your Worker.
6. Create a new deployment that splits traffic between the two versions created in step 3 and 5 by going to **Deployments** and selecting **Deploy Version**. 
7. cURL your Worker to test the split deployment. 
```

```sh
for j in {0..10}
do
    curl -s https://$SCRIPT_NAME.$SUBDOMAIN.workers.dev
done
```
You should see 10 responses. Responses will reflect the content returned by the versions in your deployment. Responses will vary depending on the percentages configured in step #6. 

## Observability

When using gradual deployments, you want to attribute Workers invocations to a specific version in order to get visibility into the impact of deploying new versions.

### Logpush

> A new ScriptVersion object is available in [Workers Logpush](/workers/observability/logging/logpush/). ScriptVersion can only be added through the Logpush API right now. Sample API call: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new `ScriptVersion` object is available in [Workers Logpush](/workers/observability/logging/logpush/). `ScriptVersion` can only be added through the [Logpush API](/api/operations/post-accounts-account_identifier-logpush-jobs) right now. Sample API call: 
```

```sh
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<ACCOUNT_ID>/logpush/jobs' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <TOKEN>' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-d '{
"name": "workers-logpush",
"logpull_options": "fields=Event,EventTimestampMs,Outcome,Exceptions,Logs,ScriptName,ScriptVersion",
"destination_conf": "<DESTINATION_URL>",
"dataset": "workers_trace_events",
"enabled": true
}'| jq .
```

> ScriptVersion is an object with the following structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ScriptVersion` is an object with the following structure:

```

```sh
scriptVersion: {
    id: "<UUID>",
    message: "<MESSAGE>",
    tag: "<TAG>"
}
```

> ### Runtime Binding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Runtime binding
```

The [Version Metadata runtime binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/script-version/) in order to access version ID or version tag in the Worker.

> ## Limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Limits
```

> **Gradual rollouts is not supported for sripts using [Smart Placement](/workers/configuration/smart-placement/), the [mTLS binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/mtls/) or [Durable Objects](/durable-objects/)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Gradual rollouts is not supported for Workers using [Smart Placement](/workers/configuration/smart-placement/), the [mTLS binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/mtls/) or [Durable Objects](/durable-objects/). Smart Placement, mTLS bindings and Durable Objects will be supported in the near future.
```

> These Workers features are currently not supported with Gradual Rollouts. This will be fixed in the near future. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These Workers features are currently not supported with Gradual Rollouts. They will be supported in the near future. 
```
Suggest using "supported" to frame it as "feature not ready yet" rather than "bug" :)

> 
> These Workers features are currently not supported with Gradual Rollouts. They will be supported in the near future. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> **You can only create a new deployment with the last 10 versions of your Worker**

Reviewer 2: Should we perhaps elaborate on why this is and/or whether we plan to increase this in the future? I don't recall why we have this limitation in place.

> **You can only create a new deployment with the last 10 versions of your Worker**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can only create a new deployment with the last 10 versions of your Worker.
```

```sh
$ npx wrangler versions deploy --experimental-versions
```

### Via the Dashboard

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers) and select your account.
3. Create a new Worker through the **Create application** button, select the **Hello World** template and deploy it. 
4. Once the Worker is deployed, go to the online code editor through **Edit code**. Edit the Worker code (change the `Response` content) and upload the Worker. 
5. To save changes, select the **down arrow** next to **Deploy** > **Save**. This will create a new version of your Worker.
6. Create a new deployment that splits traffic between the two versions created in step 3 and 5 by going to **Deployments** and selecting **Deploy Version**. 
7. cURL your Worker to test the split deployment. 

```sh
for j in {0..10}
do
    curl -s https://$SCRIPT_NAME.$SUBDOMAIN.workers.dev
done
```
You should see 10 responses. Responses will reflect the content returned by the versions in your deployment. Responses will vary depending on the percentages configured in step #6. 

## Observability

> When using gradual deployments, you want to attribute Workers invocations to a specific version in order to get visibility into the impact of deploying new versions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When using gradual deployments, you may want to attribute Workers invocations to a specific version in order to get visibility into the impact of deploying new versions.
```

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Gradual Deployments
meta:
  description: Safley deploy code changes to your Workers with gradual deployments. 
---

{{<heading-pill style="beta">}}Gradual Deployments{{</heading-pill>}}

> Gradual Deployments give users the ability to incrementally deploy new versions of Workers. Using gradual deployments allows you to: 

Reviewer 3: No "users" in docs

> Gradual Deployments give users the ability to incrementally deploy new versions of Workers. Using gradual deployments allows you to: 

Reviewer 3: Think visual can help here

4. curl your Worker to test the split deployment. 

```sh
for j in {0..10}
do
    curl -s https://$SCRIPT_NAME.$SUBDOMAIN.workers.dev
done
```
You should see 10 responses. Responses will reflect the content returned by the versions in your deployment. Responses will vary depending on the percentages configured in step #3. 

5. Set the new version uploaded in step 2 to a 100% deployment. 

```sh
$ npx wrangler deployments view --experimental-gradual-rollouts
```

Copy the `versionId` of the version uploaded in step 2. 

```sh
$ npx wrangler versions deploy <VERSION_ID> --message “deployment message”
 --experimental-gradual-rollouts
```

### Via the Dashboard

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account.
2. Select **Workers & Pages**.
3. Create a new Worker through the **Create application** flow, select the **Hello World** template and deploy it. 
4. Once the Worker is deployed, navigate to the online code editor through **Edit code**. Edit the Worker code (recommend simply changing the response content) and upload it. 
5. To save changes, click the down arrow beside "Deploy", click Save and click the **Save** button. 

> 6. Create a new deployment that splits traffic between two versions of the Worker. Head to the **Deployments** tab and select **Deploy Version**. Click **Add Version** to create a new deployment with the two versions of your Worker. Select your desired percentages for each version. Click **Deploy**. 

Reviewer 3: suggest removing

done
```
You should see 10 responses. Responses will reflect the content returned by the versions in your deployment. Responses will vary depending on the percentages configured in step #6. 

### Limits
- You can only create a new deployment with the last 10 versions of your Worker
- You can only view the last 10 deployments through `npx wrangler deployments list --experimental-gradual-rollouts` and through the Cloudflare dashboard

## Observability – Logs, Analytics, Metrics

When using gradual deployments, you want to attribute Workers invocations to a specific version in order to get visibility into the impact of deploying new versions.

### Real-time logs

A scriptVersion field is availble in [real-time logs](/workers/observability/logging/real-time-logs/) via `wrangler tail` and on the dashboard (Workers & Pages > Logs > Real-time logs). When there are multiple versions in a deployment, you can [add a filer](/workers/observability/logging/real-time-logs/#view-logs-using-wrangler-tail) on the scriptVersion field in order to only view incoming logs for a specific version. 

```sh
"scriptVersion": {
    "id": "f59c8cc2-c735-4f23-b2dc-df60aebf27c5"
  }
```
### Logpush

> A new ScriptVersion object is available in [Workers Logpush](/workers/observability/logging/logpush/). ScriptVersion can only be added through the Logpush API right now. Sample APU call: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A new ScriptVersion object is available in [Workers Logpush](/workers/observability/logging/logpush/). ScriptVersion can only be added through the Logpush API right now. Sample API call: 
```

Good opportunity to highlight new SDKs

Author: Any examples? I haven't been following this work

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-typescript

```sh
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<ACCOUNT_ID>/logpush/jobs' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <TOKEN>' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-d '{
"name": "workers-logpush",
"logpull_options": "fields=Event,EventTimestampMs,Outcome,Exceptions,Logs,ScriptName,ScriptVersion",
"destination_conf": "<DESTINATION_URL>",
"dataset": "workers_trace_events",
"enabled": true
}'| jq .
```

ScriptVersion is an object with the following structure:
```sh
scriptVersion: {
    id: "<UUID>",
    message: <MESSAGE>,
    tag: <TAG>
}
```

> ### Runtime Binding

Reviewer 3: Cross linking here? https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/

Reviewer 3: i.e. — this feature is helpful even if you're not using gradual deployments — could live on own page as own binding?

Author: Yep good point. Moving over + linking

Using gradual deployments allows you to: 

- Gradually shift traffic to a newer version of your Worker.
- Monitor error rates and exceptions across versions using [analytics and logging](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/gradual-deployments/#observability--logs-analytics-metrics) tooling.
- Perform a [rollback](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/rollbacks/) to a previously stable version if you notice issues when deploying a new version.

{{<Aside type="warning">}}

Gradual deployments are in **beta and under active development**. Please read [limitations](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments//gradual-deployments/#limits) before using this feature.

Provide your feeback through the [feedback form](https://www.cloudflare.com/lp/developer-week-deployments).

{{</Aside>}}

## Use gradual deployments

The following is a simple example that takes you through how to publish a new version of a Worker without deploying it, how to create a gradual deployment between two versions and how to progress the deployment of the new version to 100% of traffic. 

### Via Wrangler

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> Minimum required wrangler version: 3.36.0. 

Reviewer 4: 3.40.0

{{</Aside>}}

**1. Create a new "Hello World" Worker using the `create-cloudflare` CLI (C3) and deploy it.**

```sh
$ npm create cloudflare@latest <NAME> -- --type=hello-world
```

> Answer `yes` or `no` to using TypeScript. Answer `yes` to deploying your application.

Reviewer: Could we mention that this is the first version of your Worker or something along these lines?

**2. Create a new version of the Worker.**

Edit the Worker code (change the `Response` content) and upload it by using the [`wrangler versions upload`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#upload) command.

```sh
$ npx wrangler versions upload --experimental-versions
```

> This will create a new version of the Worker that is not automatically deployed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will create a new version of the Worker that is not automatically deployed. 
```

**3. Create a new deployment that splits traffic between two versions of the Worker.** 

> Use the [`wrangler versions deploy`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#deploy-2) command and follow the interactive prompts to create a deployment with the versions uploaded in step #1 and #2. Select your desired percentages for each version. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [`wrangler versions deploy`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#deploy-2) command to 
create a new deployment that splits traffic between two versions of the Worker. Follow the interactive prompts to create a deployment with the versions uploaded in [step #1]() and [step #2](). Select your desired percentages for each version. 
```
When you merge the suggestions in that change the titles to subheadings, add links to these steps so people know what step 1 and 2 are.

```sh
$ npx wrangler versions deploy --experimental-versions
```

> Follow the interactive prompts to create a deployment with the versions uploaded in step #1 and #2. Select your desired percentages for each version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Repeated info from the previous paragraph.

> 
> **4. cURL your Worker to test the split deployment.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 4. Test the split deployment

Run a cURL command on your Worker to test the split deployment.
```

```sh
for j in {0..10}
do

>     curl -s https://$SCRIPT_NAME.$SUBDOMAIN.workers.dev

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    curl -s https://$WORKER_NAME.$SUBDOMAIN.workers.dev
```

done
```

> You should see 10 responses. Responses will reflect the content returned by the versions in your deployment. Responses will vary depending on the percentages configured in step #3. 

Reviewer: Add a link to step 3 once you merge the suggestions that change to subheadings.

> You should see 10 responses. Responses will reflect the content returned by the versions in your deployment. Responses will vary depending on the percentages configured in step #3. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see 10 responses. Responses will reflect the content returned by the versions in your deployment. Responses will vary depending on the percentages configured in [step #3](). 
```

> **5. Set the new version uploaded in step 2 to a 100% deployment.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 5. Set your new version to 100% deployment

Run `wrangler versions deploy` again and follow the interactive prompts. Select the version uploaded in [step 2]() and set it to 100% deployment. 
```

> Run `wrangler versions deploy` again and follow the interactive prompts, selecting the version uploaded in step 2. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```sh
$ npx wrangler versions deploy --experimental-versions
```

> ### Via the Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Via the Cloudflare dashboard
```

> 1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers) and select your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers) and select your account.
2. Go to **Workers & Pages**.
```

3. Create a new Worker through the **Create application** button, select the **Hello World** template and deploy it. 

> 4. Once the Worker is deployed, go to the online code editor through **Edit code**. Edit the Worker code (change the `Response` content) and upload the Worker. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Once the Worker is deployed, go to the online code editor through **Edit code**. Edit the Worker code by changing the `Response` content to your desired text and upload the Worker. 
```

Reviewer: Mmm, but how do they upload the Worker?

5. To save changes, select the **down arrow** next to **Deploy** > **Save**. This will create a new version of your Worker.

> 6. Create a new deployment that splits traffic between the two versions created in step 3 and 5 by going to **Deployments** and selecting **Deploy Version**. 

Reviewer: Is there percentage instructions like in Wrangler?

> 7. cURL your Worker to test the split deployment. 

Reviewer: Can they test this through the dash? Seems off to give dashboard users terminal instructions like Wrangler steps.

```sh
for j in {0..10}
do

>     curl -s https://$SCRIPT_NAME.$SUBDOMAIN.workers.dev

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    curl -s https://$WORKER_NAME.$SUBDOMAIN.workers.dev
```

done
```
You should see 10 responses. Responses will reflect the content returned by the versions in your deployment. Responses will vary depending on the percentages configured in step #6. 

## Observability

When using gradual deployments, you may want to attribute Workers invocations to a specific version in order to get visibility into the impact of deploying new versions.

### Logpush

> A new `ScriptVersion` object is available in [Workers Logpush](/workers/observability/logging/logpush/). `ScriptVersion` can only be added through the [Logpush API](/api/operations/post-accounts-account_identifier-logpush-jobs) right now. Sample API call: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new `ScriptVersion` object is available in [Workers Logpush](/workers/observability/logging/logpush/). Currently, `ScriptVersion` can only be added through the [Logpush API](/api/operations/post-accounts-account_identifier-logpush-jobs). Review a sample API call: 
```

Reviewer: Are there linkable docs to `ScriptVersion`?

```sh
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<ACCOUNT_ID>/logpush/jobs' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer <TOKEN>' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-d '{
"name": "workers-logpush",
"logpull_options": "fields=Event,EventTimestampMs,Outcome,Exceptions,Logs,ScriptName,ScriptVersion",
"destination_conf": "<DESTINATION_URL>",
"dataset": "workers_trace_events",
"enabled": true
}'| jq .
```

`ScriptVersion` is an object with the following structure:

```sh
scriptVersion: {
    id: "<UUID>",
    message: "<MESSAGE>",
    tag: "<TAG>"
}
```

### Runtime binding

> The [Version Metadata runtime binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/script-version/) in order to access version ID or version tag in the Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [Version metadata binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/script-version/) in to access version ID or version tag in your Worker.
```

## Limits

> - You can only create a new deployment with the last 10 versions of your Worker
> 
> ### Unsupported features
> - Updating [Secrets via wrangler](/workers/wrangler/commands/#secret) with a split deployment is not supported. You must fully deploy the latest version before using updating secrets.
> - Gradual deployments is not supported for Workers with the [mTLS binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/mtls/).
> - Creating a gradual deployment with two different configurations for [Smart Placement](/workers/configuration/smart-placement/) is not supported.
> 
> These Workers features will be supported in the near future. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deployments limit 

You can only create a new deployment with the last 10 versions of your Worker

### Unsupported features

These Workers features will be supported in the near future. 

- Updating [Secrets via wrangler](/workers/wrangler/commands/#secret) with a split deployment is not supported. You must fully deploy the latest version before using updating secrets.
- Gradual deployments is not supported for Workers with the [mTLS binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/mtls/).
- Creating a gradual deployment with two different configurations for [Smart Placement](/workers/configuration/smart-placement/) is not supported.
```
